Troubleshooting guide for sandboxing (#17207)
metabase/metabase: docs/troubleshooting-guide/sandboxing.md

# Sandboxing

- Sandboxing means "giving some people access to only some data"
- Can be set up [graphically][sandboxing-your-data]
- Metabase runs a query that filters rows and/or selects a subset of columns
- The user's query then runs on that

So instead of:

```
select * from orders
where price > 100.00;
```

> we create a [common table expression][cte] as a replacement starting point for the query:

Reviewer: more than a CTE, we do a prepared statement

SELECT ... FROM (SELECT * FROM xxx WHERE field_we_use_for_sandbox = $1) "source"
parameters: $1 = 'value'

Author: OK, I'm going to need to ask you about this...

Reviewer 2: Several databases (versions) did not support CTEs, when Sandboxing was "invented", but sub-selects were supported by all, so that was chosen.
So your example would generate something like this:
```
SELECT
  "source"."other_columns" AS "other_columns",
  "source"."price" AS "price",
  "source"."customer_id" AS "customer_id" 
FROM
  (
    SELECT
      "orders"."other_columns" AS "other_columns",
      "orders"."price" AS "price",
      "orders"."customer_id" AS "customer_id" 
    FROM
      "orders" 
    WHERE
      "orders"."customer_id" = {{user_id}}
  )
  "source" 
WHERE
  "source"."price" > 100 LIMIT 2000
```

```
with temp01 as
  (select *
   from orders
   where orders.customer_id = {{user_id}})
select * from temp01
where price > 100.00;
```

> where `user_id` is bound to a property from the user record.

Author: incorporated - thanks.

## Troubleshooting Process

### My question can't be sandboxed

> 1. Public questions can't be sandboxed: if someone doesn't have to log in to view the question, Metabase doesn't have user properties or group properties available for filtering the data.

Reviewer: and they will be able to see ALL the data

Author: incorporated - thanks

> 1. Public questions can't be sandboxed: if someone doesn't have to log in to view the question, Metabase doesn't have user properties or group properties available for filtering the data.
> 
> 2. Sandboxing doesn't work for non-SQL databases like MongoDB or Google Analytics that don't use common table expressions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Public questions can't be sandboxed: if someone doesn't have to log in to view the question, Metabase doesn't have user properties or group properties available for filtering the data and all results will be shown. Similar for Signed Embedding, which will also show all results, but it's possible to control filtering with "Locked" parameters.

2. Sandboxing doesn't work for non-SQL databases like MongoDB, Druid or Google Analytics.

3. SQL questions does not have sandboxing, so any user with permissions to view the question, can see all the results.
```

### My user can't see any of the data they're supposed to

1. Sandboxing relies on properties of the user record. If they logged in directly (with an account managed by Metabase) instead of using single sign-on, or vice versa, Metabase might not have the properties it's supposed to.

2. Admins usually restrict access to tables as part of sandboxing. If the restrictions are too tight by mistake (e.g., "no access" instead of "no SQL access") the user might not be able to see any data.

### I sandboxed my data but my users can still see it

1. If the Admin forgot to restrict access, the user can see the original table.

2. Sandboxing doesn't apply to queries written in SQL, so if a user has SQL access to a table, sandboxing won't restrict them. The solution is to turn off SQL access.

3. If users are logging in with single sign-on but the expected attributes aren't being saved and made available, sandboxing will deny access - see [Authenticating with SAML][authenticating-with-saml] for more on setup.

### I'm in a bunch of groups but can't see the sandboxed data

> - We only allow one group per user for sandboxing (https://www.metabase.com/docs/latest/enterprise-guide/data-sandboxes.html#a-user-can-only-have-one-sandbox-per-table) - if someone is a member of two or more groups with different permissions, figuring out whether it should be allowed or disallowed becomes very tricky.

Reviewer: here it's one sandbox per table, more than groups

Author: incorporated - thanks

# Sandboxing

[Sandboxing data][sandboxing-your-data] gives some people access to only a subset of the data. (The term comes from the practice of putting children in a sandbox to play safely.) To implement sandboxing, Metabase runs a query that filters rows and/or selects a subset of columns from a table; the user's query then runs on the initial query's result.

Several databases did not support [common table expressions][cte] when sandboxing was added to Metabase, so we implemented it using subqueries. Suppose you use the Notebook Editor to create a query like:

```
select * from orders

> where price > 100.00

Reviewer 3: We should be consistent with the SQL formatting here so it matches the format below.

Author: capitalized the keywords but didn't newline/indent - looks silly with just `*` on a line by itself

```

If the `orders` table is sandboxed by the user's ID, what we actually run is something like this:

```
SELECT
  made_up_name_01.customer_id AS customer_id,
  made_up_name_01.price AS price,
  made_up_name_01.whatever AS whatever
FROM
  (
    SELECT
      orders.customer_id AS customer_id,
      orders.price AS price,
      orders.whatever AS whatever
    FROM
      orders 
    WHERE

>       orders.customer_id = {{user_id}}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
      orders.customer_id = {% raw %} {{user_id}} {% endraw %}
```
You need to wrap variables in a raw block so Liquid knows to ignore when rendering the website, otherwise the variable will render as blank.

  )
  made_up_name_01
WHERE
  made_up_name_01.price > 100
```

> Metabase creates a unique temporary name like `made_up_name_01` to make sure the query doesn't actually pull in data from an existing table. The curly braces `{{...}}` around `user_id` show that it is bound to an attribute from the user properties.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Metabase creates a unique temporary name like `made_up_name_01` to make sure the query doesn't actually pull in data from an existing table. The curly braces `{% raw %}{{...}}{% endraw %}` around `user_id` show that it is bound to an attribute from the user properties.
```

> 

Reviewer 3: To provide more context, we should include links to data permissions and sandboxing articles in Learn.

> ## Troubleshooting Process

Reviewer 3: Should this heading be something like "Sandboxing problems"?

Author: Changed it to 'Specific Problems' (consistent with performance troubleshooting guide etc.)

> ### Users can see data they're not supposed to be able to see

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### People can see data they're not supposed to be able to see
```

**How to detect this:** People can view data that they shouldn't be able to.

**How to fix this:** The fix depends on the root cause.

> 1. Sandboxing isn't implemented for non-SQL databases like MongoDB, Druid, or Google Analytics.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Sandboxing isn't implemented for non-SQL databases like MongoDB, Druid, or Google Analytics.
```

We should probably mention this at the top of the article as well (and in other places that discuss sandboxing.)

Author: bumped these up

> 2. Sandboxing isn't implemented for SQL questions: any user with permissions to view the question can see all the results.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Sandboxing isn't implemented for SQL questions: any user with permissions to view the question can see all the results.
```

Same here, this seems like info to frontload.

Author: ditto

> 3. Public questions can't be sandboxed: if someone doesn't have to log in to view the question, Metabase doesn't have user properties or group properties available for filtering the data, so all results will be shown. (We recommend that you do *not* using public sharing when you are sandboxing data.)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Public questions can't be sandboxed: if someone doesn't have to log in to view the question, Metabase doesn't have user properties or group properties available for filtering the data, so all results will be shown. (We recommend that you *avoid* public sharing when you are sandboxing data.)
```

> 3. Public questions can't be sandboxed: if someone doesn't have to log in to view the question, Metabase doesn't have user properties or group properties available for filtering the data, so all results will be shown. The fix is to 

Author: incorporated

4. If the administrator didn't restrict access to the underlying table when setting up sandboxing, people will be able to see the original data. You can check this by going into the Admin Panel and viewing Permissions for the table in question.

5. [Signed embedding][signed-embedding] will show all results by default, though it's possible to control filtering with [locked parameters][locked-parameters]. Note that signed embedding depends only on the token generated by the including page, not whether someone is logged into Metabase or not.

> 6. If users are logging in with single sign-on but the expected attributes aren't being saved and made available, sandboxing will deny access. Our article on [Authenticating with SAML][authenticating-with-saml] explains the required setup in detail.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
6. If people are logging in with single sign-on, but the expected attributes aren't being saved and made available, sandboxing will deny access. Our article on [Authenticating with SAML][authenticating-with-saml] explains the required setup in detail.
```

> ### Users can't see the data they're supposed to be able to see

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### People can't see the data they're supposed to be able to see
```

**How to detect this:** Someone is supposed to be able to use some of the values in a table in their queries, but are denied access or get an empty set of results where there should be data.

**How to fix this:** Again, the fix depends on the root cause:

> 1. Administrators usually restrict access to tables as part of sandboxing. If the restrictions are too tight by mistake (e.g., "no access" instead of "no SQL access") then people might not be able to see any data at all. You can check this by going into the Admin Panel and viewing Permissions for the table in question.

Author: incorporated

> 2. Sandboxing relies on properties of the user record. If someone logs in directly (i.e., if their account is managed by Metabase) instead of using single sign-on, or vice versa, Metabase might not have the properties you expect it to have. In that case, Metabase will deny access for security's sake.

Author: incorporated

> 2. Some fields in a table which the user *does* have sandbox access to are using remapping to display information from another table which the user does *not* have sandbox access to. You can check this by going into the Admin Panel and viewing the Data Model for the fields in question.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Some fields in a table which the person *does* have sandbox access to are using remapping to display information from another table which the person does *not* have sandbox access to. You can check this by going into the Admin Panel and viewing the Data Model for the fields in question.
```

> ### A user is in several groups but can't see the sandboxed data

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Someone is in several groups but can't see the sandboxed data
```

> We only allow [one sandbox per table][one-sandbox-per-table]: if someone is a member of two or more groups with different permissions, every rule for figuring out whether access should be allowed or not is confusing. We therefore only allow one rule, which sometimes means the administrator will create a new group to capture precisely who's allowed access to what.

Reviewer 3: Should we rewrite to follow the how to detect this, how to fix this template? With the fix here being to create a new group?

Author: Done.
